Name: Amber
Department:  Software
Computer:  Macbook Pro
Date and Time: 2025-02-18 12:38:39.731984
Name of Report: 4.2

--- PDF Content Below ---
Home Ada Lovelace Day 2024 Newsletter Sponsors Shop
Resources Blog About Log In
Who was Ada? Subscribe to our
newsletter
Who was Ada Lovelace?
Keep up-to-date with ALD
projects and news with our
By Sydney Padua, author of The Thrilling Adventures of Lovelace & Babbage. monthly newsletter. You
can also opt into weekly
Read the longer biography of Ada Lovelace by Suw Charman-Anderson, taken emails featuring gems
from our book, A Passion for Science: Stories of Discovery and Invention, but for from our archives!
a short overview of her life and achievements, read on!
The woman most often known as ʻAda Lovelaceʼ was born Ada Gordon in 1815,
On our blog
sole child of the brief and tempestuous marriage of the erratic poet George
Gordon, Lord Byron, and his mathematics-loving wife Annabella Milbanke. Ada Lovelace Day Live to
end
How to organise an Ada
Lovelace Day Live watch
party
Why weʼre offering a
discount to sponsors who
commit long-term
Everything you need to
know about Ada Lovelace
Day
Why we pay our speakers
and why we want to pay
them more
Fearing that Ada would inherit her fatherʼs volatile ʻpoeticʼ temperament, her
mother raised her under a strict regimen of science, logic, and mathematics. Ada
herself from childhood had a fascination with machines– designing fanciful boats
Blog categories
and steam flying machines, and poring over the diagrams of the new inventions
of the Industrial Revolution that filled the scientific magazines of the time.
Select Category
At the age of 19 she was married to an aristocrat, William King; when King was
made Earl of Lovelace in 1838 his wife became Lady Ada King, Countess of
ALD 2009's Pledge
Lovelace. She is generally called Ada Lovelace, which is a little incorrect but saves
confusion! She had three children.
Ada Lovelace Day started
with a simple promise on
in 1833, Lovelaceʼs mentor, the scientist and polymath Mary Sommerville,
Pledgebank:
introduced her to Charles Babbage, the Lucasian Professor of Mathematics who
had already attained considerable celebrity for his visionary and perpetually
"I will publish a blog post
unfinished plans for gigantic clockwork calculating machines. Charles Babbage
on Tuesday 24th March
and Ada Lovelace both had somewhat unconventional personalities and became
about a woman in
close and lifelong friends. Babbage described her as “that Enchantress who has technology whom I admire
thrown her magical spell around the most abstract of Sciences and has grasped it but only if 1,000 other
with a force which few masculine intellects could have exerted over it,” or an people will do the same."
another occasion, as “The Enchantress of Numbers”. — Suw Charman-Anderson
The Analytical Engine
Lovelace was deeply intrigued by Babbageʼs plans for a tremendously
complicated device he called the Analytical Engine, which was to combine the
array of adding gears of his earlier Difference Engine with an elaborate
punchcard operating system. It was never built, but the design had all the
essential elements of a modern computer.
In 1842 Lovelace translated a short article describing the Analytical Engine by the
italian mathematician Luigi Menabrea, for publication in England. Babbage asked
her to expand the article, “as she understood the machine so well”. The final
article is over three times the length of the original and contains several early
ʻcomputer programs,ʼ as well as strikingly prescient observations on the potential
uses of the machine, including the manipulation of symbols and creation of
music. Although Babbage and his assistants had sketched out programs for his
engine before, Lovelaceʼs are the most elaborate and complete, and the first to
be published; so she is often referred to as “the first computer programmer”.
Babbage himself “spoke highly of her mathematical powers, and of her peculiar
capability — higher he said than of any one he knew, to prepare the descriptions
connected with his calculating machine.”
Ada Lovelace died of cancer at 36, a few short years after the publication of
“Sketch of the Analytical Engine, with Notes from the Translator”.
The Analytical Engine remained a vision, until Lovelaceʼs notes became one of the
critical documents to inspire Alan Turingʼs work on the first modern computers
in the 1940s.
Her thwarted potential, and her passion and vision for technology, have made her
a powerful symbol for modern women in technology.
Read some of the primary documents by or about Ada that are online, or read
the longer biography of Ada Lovelace, taken from our book, A Passion for
Science: Stories of Discovery and Invention.
Ada Lovelace Day, an international day celebrating the achievements of women in science, technology,
engineering and maths, is on the second Tuesday of October every year.
With thanks to our partners
Ada Lovelace Day is dependent on the generosity of its partners, volunteers and supporters for survival. We
would like to thank the following organisations for their support of Ada Lovelace Day and women in STEM.
Please see our Privacy Policy and Cookie Policy.
--- End of PDF Content ---
(c) www.companywebsite.com  4.2 | Student ID: AmbLaw9047 | Page 1 of 1
